All right so the alphabetic sub sequence is a fun one.
Here our objective is we are going to take in a string in this example here.
E f f g and or C B C.
And what we want to happen here is return a boolean about whether or not that the sequence of it went
as you would expect an alpha in the alphabet right.
So A B C D.
So there's ubiquitous it's going to fail if it doesn't go in order it doesn't have to necessarily go
ABC but it would have to go A C E or A C D meaning that the all the values before it are less than the
values after it.
So that's what we're that's what we're tasked with here.
The way that I solve this I use sets with the Size property I also use char code at.
Let's go ahead and jump right into it.
All right so the way that I solved this was I split the string into an array of characters and then
stored it the char code the the char code value which is going to be the ascii value to an array.
I compared the size to a set which only has unique values and if they're not the same size then we have
duplicate letters and we can go ahead and return false because that's one false case.
And then from there what I did was I then sorted through to check if the values are in order right.
And say hey is this less than this is this list and this and if any of them ever is greater than the
previous one we can just return false cells for you.
So let's go ahead and get started here.
So the way that I like to solve booleans is the cases in which there are more true statements will return
TRUE more than false statements are true and false so what I mean by that is typically what do I need
to code against.
And in this case I want to code against falsie values.
So let's go in and create that char's array.
And I'm going to explicitly say that this is a string array.
I don't mean the same thing for numbers.
It was my array types.
I like to tell them what it is I'm expecting.
So char values is going to be storing number values and these are going to be like are A's B C's they're
ascii values of C..
Well what I need do initialize that to a empty value.
Next what we're going to do is we're going to iterate through our character array that we just got here
a moment ago and we're just going to go through and then we're going to get each one of those chars
which are strings.
Right.
Each one of these Charke their char code value their ASCII value.
As you say char values
try values.
Push on Push one of push char but the char code at the index here.
Right.
So in our case we have just a single letter and that's where the zero is coming from.
Now what we can do now we have two different things to compare.
We can write this statement here that says hey if a new set so sets are kind of like arrays they're
iterable.
But they don't take duplicates even if you pass duplicates.
So you'll see here if we were to for instance canceled our log new set char values you could see that
1 0 1 1 2 1 or 3 even though there's four letters because it's missing one of those one of those F's.
So what we're saying here.
And then we're in called dot size and that's going to essentially the length of sets if we're saying
that these are not equal to the same thing as the char values length which is an array and will have
duplicates.
We just want to return false because there are duplicate values and thus there's no reason as to how
these can persist.
But in our tests here these are all passing for true but we can actually make it one step a little bit
further because there may be things that are in the wrong order.
For instance let's give an example where we're to take one of these
and we were to say the A B for instance that would return true right now.
And the problem with that is that would be incorrect.
And so what we want to do is say look what i equals zero.
We'll say well I use less and char values at length iterate through it and then we'll just have a little
esteeming and say if char values and this can be Charvel.
So minus one if char values
is greater than or equal to at this point we can eliminate the equal to because our first test was again.
But it's probably a good convention just just leave this in here where they're equal to I plus 1.
We can go ahead and return false.
And now we handle the false instance and we have all our TRUE instances.
So again what we did was we took a drink.
We made it an array of characters.
We then got the ascii values of those characters.
We checked to see if there was any duplicates.
And then if any of the letters came before it were larger than the letter after we returned false all
of their cases were returned true.